Jehovah, the God of love, hates.
That's quite a statement, isn't it? How can that be?
Well, look at the first part of today's text at Psalm 9710.
O you who love Jehovah, hate what is bad.
Our God expects us to hate what is bad because he does that.
And the reason for this is explained in the first two verses of Psalm 97.
Verse 1 begins, Jehovah has become king.
Verse 2 concludes, righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne.
And in the scriptures, righteousness refers to what is right according to God's standard
of right and wrong. And here are just a few examples in the Bible of the things that Jehovah says
are wrong and that he hates. At Psalm 115, it says, Jehovah hates anyone who loves violence.
At Isaiah 61-8, it says, I Jehovah hate robbery and unrighteousness.
At Malachi 216, it states, I hate divorce says Jehovah, the context talking about treacherous
unscriptural divorce. And then there's Proverbs chapter 6. Let's turn in our Bibles to that.
Proverbs the sixth chapter, starting with verse 16, there are six things that Jehovah hates.
Yes, seven things that he detests, haughty eyes, a lion tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,
a heart plodding wicked schemes and feet that run quickly to evil, a false witness who lies with
every breath and anyone sowing contentions among brothers. So yes, the God of love hates.
And so does Jesus. Look at what was said of God's son at Hebrews chapter 1 and verse 9.
Hebrews 1-9, you loved righteousness and you hated lawlessness. That is why God, your God,
anointed you with the oil of exaltation more than your companions.
Well, if we desire Jehovah's blessing, then we also must hate what is bad. That is have an
intense aversion, a strong abhorrence for what God hates. And having that godly hate serves as a
powerful protection for us not to get involved in any bad practices. But exactly what did these
include? Well, we just read in Proverbs seven categories of hateful things. They're basic,
but they cover virtually all types of wrongs. Haughty eyes and wicked schemes are sins committed in
thought. The lion tongue and a false witness are sinful words, hands that shed blood and feet
that run to evil, and someone who produces contentions among brothers, why those are all wicked
deeds. And interestingly, the writer, when he increased the number of things Jehovah hates from
six to seven, that suggests that this list is not intended to be complete, because humans
keep thinking up bad things. And as an example, consider the escalating trend toward the use of
more and more explicit sex and graphic violence that appear today in advertising and entertainment,
from clothing ads to movies. Now, how much of that can we be exposed to before it affects us
mentally and morally? It makes me think of the five second rule. Have you ever heard of that?
It's a so-called rule that some people say applies to food that's dropped on the floor.
That it's okay to eat it if you pick it up in five seconds or less, because bacteria won't
have time to contaminate it. But is that really true? Not according to research done last year
at Rutgers University. It was concluded that no matter how fast you pick up food that falls
on the floor, you will pick up bacteria with it sometimes and less than one second.
Of course, the longer the food sits on the floor, the more bacteria it collects.
So if you eat food dropped on the floor, you're taking a chance. No matter how long it's sat there,
and you should know the clean-looking floor is not necessarily clean. So a food falls on the floor
when in doubt, throw it out. But how does this relate to our discussion of hating the things that
Jehovah hates? Well, how long does it take for an immoral, violent, or satanic image to burn a thought
in our mind? Something we see on a billboard, in a magazine, on television, at a movie,
on the internet. Is there a five-second rule for this sort of thing? Should we think that as long
as we look at it only briefly, it will not contaminate us? Well, let's use five seconds as an example
and see how long that is, and you can judge for yourselves. Don't take your eyes off the screen.
Now, do you think at lunch today you'll be able to remember that picture?
Delicious-looking chocolate ice-cream sundae was syrup in a cherry on top? Well,
don't expect to see it on the lunch line. Now, let's try four seconds. What about this image?
Will this cute baby's face come back to your mind tomorrow next week?
Now, watch the screen for three seconds. Will this image stick in your mind?
Next month, next year, do you think you will be able to remember Jesus on a white horse riding
off to the Battle of Armageddon? Now, you saw each picture for only a few seconds,
and yet scientists say the human brain can process images in even less time in a split second
in the blink of an eye. So, think how much processing our brain can do in several seconds,
or minutes, or longer. Now, the pictures we just looked at were all wholesome images,
but what if there had been a pornographic picture from the internet,
a sexually explicit or graphically violent scene from a movie, or some
spiritistic gore in a video game? If we gaze at something that Jehovah hates, we're taking a chance
no matter how long we look at it, and that graphic image can come back to mind again and again
to haunt us. Now, we may not be able to avoid all of this 100% because of the wicked world
that surrounds us, but we certainly don't have to linger in looking at these things,
and we do not want to seek them out. And we need to realize that what we might think as a clean
movie is not necessarily clean. So, like food that is fallen on the floor, when in doubt,
we throw it out. So, we need to detest the immorality, the violence, the spiritistic practices
of Satan's world. In other words, hate, every practice that violates Jehovah's Righteous standards.
Now, even if we hate what is bad, we may struggle because we live in a world that caters to the flesh,
and we have our own sinful nature to control. So, how do we develop the needed hatred for what is
bad? First, we strengthen our desire to please Jehovah in everything we do. Then we meditate on
what it is that he loves and what it is that he hates. And finally, we convince ourselves of the
badness of the things that he hates by considering how disgusting the results are for those who practice
them. And among one more thing, if we struggle with this, then we pray earnestly to Jehovah to help
strengthen our powers of self-control. Well, you can be sure that as our days text Psalm 9710 says of
those who imitate Jehovah and hate what is bad, he is guarding the lives of his loyal ones,
and he rescues them from the hand of the wicked.